-> within operator it is dynamic.  It is used to refer
the data and functions of the object

new is used to construct the operator

stdClass is the class in whihc we can add data and function in run time


We will build a request that goes into php create a database connection
and goes into sql server  send sql commands back and forth then retrieves
the data(record sets), the in web server it do something( create pjp file) then send
the response 

PDO - Portable Data Object

to make a connection to database this command is used

$pdo = new PDO('mysql:host=localhost;port=3306;
            dbname=databasename','username','password');

To make connection to the database we must know id, password and port on which 
they are running.
We can have multiple connection to a database.

pdo->query  this is used to send strings of sql query directly to the database.

$stmt -> fetch(PDO::FETCH_ASSOC)  this is used to fetch the result of the query
from database.

After the data is fetched formm the database php formats the data, then it sends
the response to the user.

errormode should be always start before continuing of any project otherwise 
it won't print any error output.

prepare statement looks for sql query syntax and other things to be correct.

execute statement parses the statement and execute the sql query and it also
execute the array with the place holder column name map to actual string we
want. 
It checks and replaces the actual data instead of place holder and runs the 
query.



SQL INJECTION
To avoid the sql injection always do statement prepare and execute.
 

HTTP cookies(browser concept)

cookies are part of the http protocol. It is a samll data which is stored in 
our browser, it is a key value pair it is almost like a php key value array


At beginning there is nothing in the cookies a small data which is received 
from response, it is stored in that cookies.

It is send from web server side every time with response. there is limit like
expiration date and size.

cookies data is stored in $_COOKIE 


Sessions(server concept)

it is a samll data whihc is stored in server $_SESSION
If any browser is unmarked then browser create a session, this session cookie 
is used to reconnect the session.

session_start() to create a session or establish a connection 
session_destroy() to ends the session


Redirect 

when a request come in your php server ,it can send a secial response of 
redirect but this response never gets to the dom then it again calls a request
then it goes to the redirected response.

GET request is called twice.

GET redirect GET post then you get redirected then you do an another redirect

HTTP loaction header

it is a response header that your application send that says this is not
the page you are looking for go o this url.

header should be called before any output is printed 



Post refressh redirect

fill a form 
do a post
the data gets updated once
then you sends a redirect 
then it silently goes back to same page
then the confirmation page is the result of get
if we refresh 
then get request is called after then


flash messages(post redirect get refresh)

post 
post comes in we put the data in the session
then imediately sends the redirect 
then the browser does he another get request
then pulls the data out of the session
then it produces the html with the old guess and the message
and then it sends the messgae to the browser 
which parses th reaponse an dputs in rthe dom and you see it
then if you ypres refresh
it sends the get request in which thenpulls the same data out of the session
produces the same html and then the response come back to you 




For login logout we use session 



CRUD 

Refactoring - to split the function in the seoarate file

we will place the raw user input into the database
we will call he htmlentities when we are fetching the data from the database

do not call htmlentities twice
